# The Problem in More Detail
This document adds detail to the cursory overview provided in the [readme](./readme.md).

### Preliminary Definitions
For the sake of clarity.

The **Mandelbrot Set** is defined as the set of points on the complex plane for which the iterative function F(Z) = Z^2+C remains bounded when iterated with Z initially equal to zero and C as the point being tested.  If the magnitude of the function is greater than 2, i.e., |F(z)|>2, then further iterations will produce unboundededly larger values of Z, so a magnitude check of whether |Z|>2 at every iteration is the standard test to evaluate whether a point is outside the Mandelbrot Set.  Customarily, the bounded points, which are part of the Mandelbrot Set, are colored black.  As such, the *Mandelbrot Set* (the black part) is only part of what I am calling the **Mandelbrot Set Image**, which also includes a color-coded valuation of all the points that escaped the boundary check, colored by how many iterations of F(Z) it took a point to do so.  These points are not members of the Mandelbrot Set, but they are still interesting.

It may take many iterations, however, for the orbit of a point to exceed the boundary check, and points in the Mandelbrot Set never will (by definition), *so for the sake of the algorithm terminating,* if a point has not escaped the boundary by a certain specified maximum number of iterations, it is customarily "presumed" to be part of the Mandelbrot set and colored black as well.  Of course, further iterations may reveal otherwise, and near the edge of the Mandelbrot set, this is often the case.  An example would be a point which escapes the boundary check only after 100,000 iterations of slowly growing larger.  If our max iterations is 50K, the point will not produce a Z-value such that |Z|>2 during its first 50K iterations, and so the point will end up being "presumed" part of the Mandelbrot Set for max iterations < 100K.  Yet if we iterate longer, it will become apparent that this point's orbit is indeed unbounded and it is not part of the set because after 100K iterations, the value of Z quickly grows to infinity.

This program seeks to investigate the effect of floating point implementations on _both_ the shape of the Mandelbrot set (i.e., the black points) and the shape of the iteration bands of colored points around it, where there is also considerable visual complexity.

I call **The Mandelbrot Set Algorithm** the computational implementation whereby one attempts to ascertain whether a certain point on the complex point is in the set.  One important feature of this algorithm is the way complex numbers are handled, including their floating-point representation.  There are several other important choices to make as well, especially those which decrease computation time, such as the techniques of periodicity checking or the perturbation algorithm.  *Because these time-saving features introduce additional layers of potential inaccuracy, I have intentionally chosen not to employ them here.*  The Mandelbrot Set Algorithm employed here is the simplest and therefore it most directly manifests the way that floating point implementation affects the visual result.  Our Mandelbrot Set Algorithm simply iterates F(z), performs a boundary check, and if the boundary is exceeded, it returns the iteration number, and if not, it continues until max iterations have been performed.  If the boundary has not been exceeded by max iterations, then a value of zero is returned.

## The Inaccuracies of Mandelbrot Representation

### Pixels to Points
The Mandelbrot algorithm 
